Hey everyone.
In this section,
we're going to go over high and
low level programming,
which is just a way to describe
different kinds of language.
>> Right.
And so, the first thing we're
going to look at is, how easy and
how hard it is to look at
different models of programming.
With high level programming,
just to start off.
To give you some examples,
here, Python and Java.
Those languages are considered
high-level programming.
And low-level programming languages
are like Assembly, ARM, MIPs, so on.
>> And it's also sort of a grey area,
because C's sort of in between.
>> Right.
>> You'll see later when
we start describing it.
>> Right, and so,
with high level programming,
the first point we want to touch upon is,
it's easier to use.
The syntax is often easier for
like Python.
It's much easier.
You don't have to worry about brackets.
>> Simpler.
Easier to read.
>> Easier to read and all that.
Yeah.
>> Well, then like low level languages,
it might be a bit more difficult.
When you first open an assembly file,
what the heck is this?
>> And usually, lower programming has
a lot more lines of code to look through.
And the next thing we have there is how
low programming has many abstractions.
And that's basically, helpful,
because the more abstract it is,
you can apply to more things.
You don't have to specifically create
a certain thing for that specific use.
You can just create one thing and
use it for ten different things.
>> Right, it's like a lot of like premade
functions or something like that.
>> Premade functions, yeah.
And for low level program,
you don't have as many there as that.
And the next thing we have for high
level programming is automate processes.
So for like Java, there's this thing
called a garbage collector, and
we'll go over more detail what that is.
But that's basically, if you write
something that you never initialize or
use later on, the garbage
collector will just remove that.
>> Right, and
then in low level programming,
you have to manage your memory yourself.
So garbage collecting is removing
memory that you have already allocated.
But then, in the long term,
you have to remove it.
If you don't remove it,
you might run after a memory.
So that's a big problem.
>> Or you might have memory leaks and
that can cause security problems and such.
So that's important there.
Is there anything else you
want to add there, Randy?
>> Yeah, it's like.
What I said earlier about C
sort of being in the middle.
It has an automated process
of looking at the registers.
Like ARM, you have to actually
go into your registers,
which is why the level is
considered closer to hardware.
Because you talk about
the hardware's registers [CROSSTALK]
>> So you basically,
have to look at the hardware and manage
each registery with low-level programming.
>> Right.
>> With high-level programming,
it will do it for you.
That's the point there.
>> Right.
>> And
with that,
we'll see you in the next video.
And we'll talk about actual
high-level programming languages and
what it offers here.